in Bengal a goon in Fiji the local
people are proving that sharks can be
more valuable alive than dead tourists
will pay good money for an encounter
with real live sharks this is a
community owned reef and some of the
money goes to the local villagers a big
incentive not to kill the main
attraction virgins have long had an
affinity with sharks
the ancestors worshipped a shark God who
they believed kept them safe from harm
they would feed sharks not hunt them and
these divers continue the tradition
first to the feast our tawny nurse
sharks but these sharks are scavengers
it's the big predators the tourists want
to see
[Music]
bull sharks growing up to three and a
half meters long these sharks are one of
the oceans top predators and with an
aggressive reputation
[Music]
the chief shark feeder is from a village
where the shark God is still worshipped
so he has no fear
[Music]
a bowl of shark fin soup can sell for
over $100 but here each tourist pays
that to see these sharks alive and dives
take place several times each week
[Music]
to protect the shocks this reef has now
been declared a marine reserve
with the added bonus that other fish are
protected too
[Music]
before the reserve was established this
reef had been fished out even a single
giant trevally of this size was a rarity
today
the divers are in for a special treat
[Music]
a five-meter tiger shark
the dive leaders have named her Scarface
she turns up once a month or so